.\"
.\" $Id: fdesign.1,v 0.57 2000/05/20 20:25:18 zhao Beta $
.\"
.\" Man page for Forms Designer
.\" Use the following command to generate viewable man page
.\"   tbl fdesign.1 | {nt}roff -man
.\"
.\"   ul | more -fsk to view
.\"
.\"
.TH FDESIGN 1L "May 2000" "Version 0.57" "Forms Library"
.SH NAME
fdesign \-  Forms Library User Interface Designer
.\"
.\" setup
.de Cr
.ie n (c)
.el \(co
..
.SH SYNOPSIS
.if n fdesign
.if t  \{
.B fdesign
\}
[-xformoptions] [-options] [files]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I fdesign
is a GUI builder that helps the construction of graphical user interface
in a WYSIWYG (what you see is what you get) way by allowing
the user to directly manipulate various objects, such as buttons,
sliders and menus etc.  Once a satisfactory UI is constructed,
the user can save the composed interface into an external file
containing some program code. When compiled, linked with the
.BR "Forms Library" , 
and executed, the generated code
would, at run time (or print time for PostScript output), construct 
the exact same interfaces as those seen within
.IR fdesign .

A variety of output language is possible via external
filters.  As of this writing, C, perl, ada95, Fortran, pascal, 
and PostScript output filters are known to exist.

.SH OPTIONS
.I fdesign
accepts all standard 
.B Forms Library
command line options as well as the following:
.TP 6
.B \-help
Prints a brief summary of all command line options. This option
does not require a connection to the X server.
.TP
.B \-version
Prints the current version of
.I fdesign
and exits.
.TP
.BI \-geometry " geom"
Specifies the prefered size and location of main working area in which
the UI is to be constructed.
.TP
.BI \-convert " fdfile-list"
This option prevents 
.I fdesign
from attempting to make a connection to the X server. The file list
following this flag is converted to C code directly.
.TP
.BI \-unit " pixel|point|mm|cp|cmm"
selects the unit of measure for object geometries. For non-pixel unit,
the interface created is screen resolution independent and may be
desirable for many applications. Note that for typical screens,
.I point
(about 1/72 inch) and
.I mm
may be too coarse and subject to round-off errors. Use
.I cp
(centi-point, 100th of a point) and
.I cmm
(centi-mm) instead.
.TP
.B \-altformat
selects an alternative format for the generated C code where
global variables are used for the UI components.
.TP
.B \-main
requests the output of main program template.
.TP
.B \-callback
requests the output of callback function template.
.TP
.B \-compensate
requests the emission of font/server resolution variation
compensation code.
.TP
.BI \-I " headerfile"
uses an alternative header file instead of the default
forms.h in the output C code.
.TP
.B \-lax
requests relaxed C syntax checking.
.TP
.B \-ps
This option specifies that instead of emitting the c code
for the user interface, PostScript code should be emitted.
.TP
.B \-ada
This option requests ada95 code output
.TP
.B \-perl
This option requests perl code output.
.TP
.B \-fortran
This option requests Fortran code output.
.TP
.B \-pascal
This option requests pascal code output.
.TP
.B \-nocode
suppresses the output of UI code. Only the .fd file is written.
.PP
The most useful 
.B Forms Library
command line options are
.TP
.BI \-display " host:dpy"
This option specifies the X server to connect.
.TP
.BI \-flversion 
This option prints the version string of the
.BR "Forms Library" , 
with which fdesign was build.
.TP
.BI \-name " appname"
This option specifies the application name under which resources
are to be obtained, instead of the executable name.
.I appname
should not contain . or *.
.IR fdesign . 
.SH RESOURCES
The program understands all of the
.BR "Forms Library" 's
resource names and classes as well as the following
.TP 8
control.geometry (class Control.Geometry)
specifies the geometry of the control panel. Currently the size 
is ignored.
.TP
unit (Unit)
specifies the default unit of measure. Default is pixel.

.TP
attributes.geometry (class Attributes.Geometry)
specifies the geometry of the object attributes panel. 
Currently the size is ignored.
.TP
align.geometry (class Align.Geometry)
specifies the geometry of the object align panel. 
Currently the size is ignored.
.TP
xformsHeader (class XFormsHeader)
specifies the header filename generated in the output C code.
Default is forms.h
.TP
filter (class Filter)
specifies post-processing filter (an external executable name). 
.TP
language (class Language)
specifies target language name.

.PP
Among the standard 
.B Forms Library
resources, the following are most useful
.TP
xform.fontsize (class XFORM.FontSize)
specifies the font size used for most object labels.
.TP
xform.pupfontsize (class XFORM.PupFontSize)
specifies the font size used in pop-up menus.
.TP
xform.browserFontSize (class XFORM.BrowserFontSize)
specifies the font size used for the text inside a browser.

.SH SEE ALSO
xforms(5), fd2ps(1L)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright
.Cr
1996-2000 T.C. Zhao (tc_zhao@yahoo.com) 
and Mark Overmars (markov@cs.ruu.nl)
.SH HOME PAGE
http://world.std.com/~xforms
